We now know the interface of the data model, let's see what we can do in the query editor then.
So this is where we stopped in a last video,
we are in the report
view of our GDP data model.
Let's now open the query editor and see what the interface looks like there. To open the query editor,
you simply go to the home ribbon and select edit queries.
Now we can maximize that
and the first thing we might note is that this looks kind of similar to the view we had before in the
data model,
however there are a lot of differences.
The main difference is that ribbon area up here, we have more ribbons and a lot more functionalities.
Now we will not talk about those functionalities right now because in the next module where we'll start
our first real project,
we will look at a lot of those functions in detail.
So for now, the only thing you have to know, the ribbons provide a lot of functionalities to work
with our queries but we'll see how this works.
So let's go to the left column then, we had that view selection in the data model, here
we don't have view.
The only thing we can change right here is the selected query.
Now in our case, we only connected one data to that Power BI desktop project
but if you connect more data, then you could select all of your data connections,
so by that all of your queries in that view. If you then go to the right column, you see that you have
that query settings. Here you can do two things mainly,
the first thing is you can change the name, so you could write Table 1 to press enter and you'll see
that the name changed.
So let's undo that,
this is one functionality.
The more important functionality is this applied steps table right here.
This table shows you each step you applied to your query and you remember, we changed some things and
we can see every change right here.
Now you cannot only see what you've changed,
you can also undo your changes by clicking that x right here.
We'll see how this works and how great and helpful it actually is in the next module,
so just keep in mind whatever we do is tracked right here.
And by saying tracked right here, I also have to add something.
If you look into the formula bar and this is something new, you might know that we didn't have that in
the data view or in the data model actually.
The reason for that is that the query editor and the actual data model worked with two different formula
languages,
this is the so-called M language whereas the data model works with the DAX.
Now we'll talk about the DAX language in more detail later on,
what you have to know for the moment regarding that M language in the query editor is that each of the steps
you apply is also presented in a formula view,
so you can see what happens from the code perspective actually.
Now if you could learn that M language of course, no problem
but the query editor is built in a way that you have a lot of implemented functions.
So normally, you don't need to learn that M language to do the general tasks that are necessary to shape
your data.
Nevertheless you can see what happens with the code step-by-step by looking into that formula bar.
So I'll come back to that from time to time throughout our data shaping and leaning in the next module.
So that's it.
We now saw the interface of the data model in the last video and we saw the interface of the query editor
in that video.
Now before we start with our first project and dive really deep into that query editor, let's take a look
at the options and see if we have to adjust something to make sure that Power BI desktop works the way
we want it to work.
We'll do that in the next video.